do you study psychology in order to be a
more effective salesperson i wouldn't
say I study psychology um I would say I
just look at data of business because I
the the the one advantage that I have is
I have a a huge amount of data that I
sit on top of between the companies that
we invest in the companies that uh come
use our services on the advisory
division um and the companies that well
companies we own and the compan we
invest in and so it's like I get to see
a lot of different data and so when we
make changes into a sales process or a
change in terms of an offer um I could
see the improvements in conversion rates
and so uh that's where a lot of my like
thesis have come from are you ever
surprised by the data or is most of it
kind of just confirming your intuition
all the time i get surprised all the
time what's been like one of the biggest
surprises about this data yeah we had a
we had a company um that uh sells B2B
services and I had this guess that um
based on uh basically we could collect
the data of the size of the revenue of
the companies that were basically leads
that were coming in the funnel and so I
wanted to shut off the bottom third of
the leads cuz they were the lowest
revenue leads and just have the team
focus on the top two/3s and so I was
like "Hey just pull pull the sales data
cuz I'm going to bet that all the
conversions happening on the top end."
and the conversion rate was actually
evenly spread and so um I was like huh
like almost to the percentage point i
was like that is not what I would have
expected and again that could be unique
to that specific business i would still
posit that in general more qualified
customers buy on average more and spend
more money just in this particular
business and maybe that means that that
business is mispriced which would be a
different problem but given that data I
was like huh that's interesting we have
people who are 10 times the size buying
at the same rate as people who are
onetenth the size wild and it's way more
of a stretch for these people than it is
for these people so maybe we're missing
our message did you ever find out why
have you dug into that and gotten to the
bottom i It's a It's a great question
because like I I try It's really hard to
say why because like I think a lot of
people like to use because because it's
very compelling um but I just try and
stick with like this is the data that I
have within this given context and in
this situation it worked and I know
there are principles like things that
are fast will sell better than things
that are slow things that are easy will
sell better than things that are hard
things that are risk- free will sell
better than things that are not risky
like I can take that to the bank so like
I try and think of like what are the few
principles that will always uh be true
and then the rest is application what's
something that you track within a
business that most people don't even
look at i'll give you a handful of
metrics that I track so you be like I
didn't need that many so if I had to
solve for two things it would be uh
gross margin and revenue retention so
fundamentally like what do we make per
sale in terms of uh like is there a lot
of margin that's there if so like that's
an that's more attractive to me and then
secondarily uh how likely is that this
person is going to continue to buy from
us next year and the year after that so
if I have a business that I
hypothetically 100% gross margins and
100% revenue retention that's an amazing
business they literally just print money
and they never lose it like that's cool
uh that's a very attractive business so
if I only knew those two things the only
other thing I'd want to know is what's
my cost to acquire a customer versus my
lifetime gross profit per customer so
how much money does it cost me to get
somebody and then how much do they pay
me over time and so basically that
fundamental the LTV to CAC ratio or LTGP
to CAC ratio i know fancy acronyms but
uh that ratio between those two numbers
is the fundamental economic arbitrage
that exists within businesses and
fundamentally that's why um private
businesses will get the highest returns
in terms of uh returns on capital
because in in in in so few places like
if you were to put it in the S&P 500
those companies are already at scale and
it's harder for them to grow you know at
huge huge percentages um maybe you let's
say you put $1,000 in and you get 10% so
you're $1,100 bucks at the end of the
year in a business you could put $1,000
into paid ads and make $30,000 in gross
profit in 24 hours like that happens all
the time and so it's like that's how
somebody can go from $0 to a billionaire
in four years because the returns on
capital are absurd and this is also what
I think one of the big opportunities of
of social media is is that like okay why
is social media so powerful it's because
it drives CAC to zero do you trust
customer satisfaction i take it as I'll
I'll take surveys so we survey um across
all the companies that we have because I
like to have leading indicators in terms
of like what's going on i like I care
more about the reason why that they give
it's kind of like the comment section
like I care more about that um but I
care far more about renewal rates so if
we're getting bad scores but everyone's
buying then I'd be like "Okay well we
found something that people need but
hate that they have to buy from us and
they'll be very quick to switch." Um but
as of right now there's no one else who
can do it either better faster or
cheaper than we can um but I would
renewal rate like how you spend your
money is what I care the most about and
I would say what you think it's kind of
like what do you want and people like I
want faster horses versus the car so
it's like I care about that a little bit
but I care far more about what the data
suggests about purchase behavior when
you make an offer to somebody and they
say no I'm not interested how often is
that able to be turned around across
what setting is that in a sales setting
in a sales setting um I think it depends
on the reason the person said no so it
that would that would be a like it would
be a discovery question after that so be
like well what are the variables you're
using to make the decision and sometimes
like I think there's a there's a big
difference between a no based on value
uh or a no based on details or a no
based on authority or a no based on
timing like just kind of said budget
authority and timing these are the kind
of the components well how do we make
sure that we can can I control can I can
I overcome some of these issues now if
someone's like uh love what you have um
I don't buy coats because I live in
Panama i'm like okay there's no need
like I could try and sell what I like
like hey I've got a gym membership uh
why aren't you signing up it's like well
you're in Iowa and I live in Florida
like like I'm never going to get there
like so it's like where it depends on
the reason for the no and what if it's a
price issue mhm where do you draw the
line between lowering the price and
cheapening the product and getting
someone who's qualified or keeping the
price the same but losing the sale yeah
so I I'm a very firm believer in never
negotiating with terrorists including
price terrorists and so if someone wants
to look like if someone says "Hey can
you do it for cheaper?" You know we
always I mean we train on saying like
"We can do it for more." And people are
like "Okay yeah I got it i'll I'll buy
at that price." Um but I the price that
you quote is the price that you stick to
otherwise every as soon as you negotiate
once every price you have is negotiable
which sucks as a business and is a pain
in the butt and I hate it so um and you
want price standardization anyways
because you don't want different people
getting sold different prices people
could talk it's kind of sucks so um my
big thing is price and terms and so if
we have this price if I'm going to
change it then I will also change terms
so if someone's like "Hey I I would love
to buy the $5,000 thing but I can't
afford it." If we've already looped a
couple times and said "Okay why can't
you afford it why how important is this
to you what would it cost you to to not
do this you know quantify as many of
these things as possible." And they're
still like "I literally just don't have
this amount of this is here's my bank
account i have $3,000 i will buy it for
$3,000." Then in that instance like I
can't ethically sell you the same thing
as somebody else for $5,000 for $3,000 i
can't do it what I can do is I can
remove a component so let's look at
these things that we have here uh we
have this guarantee i can remove the
guarantee and I can knock $1,000 off
does that work okay um also instead of
you know coming to the gym you know
three times a week if you come to the
gym twice a week will that work for you
great well let's just do that you can do
one workout at home so I'll I'll I'll
want to change the terms of the
agreement if I'm going to change price
but I can't I won't just say "Sure I'll
do it for less." I just won't do that

