claude just got a powerful upgrade that
makes it smarter at solving complex
problems perplexity AI is pushing to
take over Tik Tok with bold claims about
fixing its algorithm and a
groundbreaking AI model is now
outperforming doctors by a massive
margin so let's talk about it all right
so Claude just got a serious upgrade
with a new tool called the think tool
and it's a gamecher when it comes to
handling complex problems the idea is
simple instead of just pushing through a
task Claude now has a dedicated step
where it stops reflects and checks if
it's on the right track before moving
forward and the results speak for
themselves in tests adding this think
tool improved Claude's performance
significantly especially in complex
multi-step scenarios where following
rules analyzing data and sticking to
policies is crucial but this isn't just
some generic improvement the numbers
behind it are impressive in a benchmark
called TBench which is designed to test
AI models in realistic customer service
situations Claude's success rate jumped
dramatically once the think tool was
added without the tool Claude's pass one
score the metric that measures how often
it gets things right on the first try
was sitting at
0.332 when developers added the think
tool that number climbed to
0.444 already a solid improvement but
when they combined the think tool with
an optimized prompt one that gave Claude
specific instructions on how to think
the score shot up to
0.584 that's over 54% better than the
original baseline the impact was even
clearer in retail customer service tasks
claude's baseline score there was
0.783 just by giving Claude the think
tool without any additional prompting it
score jumped to 0.8
812 no fancy setup no extra instructions
just the tool itself made Claude
noticeably smarter but what exactly is
this think tool doing behind the scenes
well it's not the same as Claude's
extended thinking mode extended thinking
is all about careful planning before
Claude starts responding it's like
pausing at the starting line to
carefully map out the entire route ahead
that's useful for things like coding
math and physics problems situations
where you can solve the whole thing in
one go without gathering more
information the think tool on the other
hand is more like stopping halfway
through the race to check if you're
still on the right path it's designed
for moments when Claude realizes it
might be missing something like when
it's working with tool outputs following
complex policies or solving multi-step
problems where one mistake can derail
the entire
solution let's say Claude is handling a
tricky airline support request imagine a
passenger wants to cancel a flight with
the think tool active Claude pauses to
check if it has everything it needs does
it have the passenger's ID what about
the reservation number has it confirmed
the cancellation policy like whether the
ticket was booked within 24 hours or if
it's part of a flexible fair with the
think tool Claude steps back and asks
itself those questions before making a
decision avoiding costly mistakes
developers discovered that adding
specific instructions on how Claude
should think made a massive difference
especially in tricky domains like
airline support by including a checklist
in the prompt things like verify
reservation details or check
cancellation rules or confirm if any
segments have already been flown claude
became far more reliable that optimized
prompt took the pass one score from 404
to 0 584 a huge boost in accuracy
but what's even more impressive is how
the think tool improved consistency over
multiple attempts in complex
environments like customer support
handling rare situations is critical
without the think tool Claude's
performance steadily dropped as
scenarios became more unusual or complex
with the think tool in place it
maintained stronger results even up to
five consecutive trials a clear sign
that the tool helps Claude stay reliable
even under pressure in retail support
tasks where things are generally easier
the think tool improved performance just
by existing no extra instructions no
fancy prompting just the space to stop
and reflect was enough to push Claude's
pass one score to
0.812 it even outperformed the extended
thinking mode which topped out at 0.77
this pattern repeated itself in coding
tests too in SWE a coding benchmark
where Claude had to analyze bugs and
suggest fixes developers modified the
think tool to act like a brainstorming
tool for coding ideas for example if
Claude found a bug it would pause and
brainstorm multiple ways to fix it then
evaluate which approach was the simplest
and most effective that small change
pushed Claude to a state-of-the-art
score of 0.623 623 in Swebench proving
this tool isn't just about customer
support it's powerful in technical
environments as well now the think tool
isn't something you want to throw into
every situation it's designed for
complex environments where mistakes are
costly and each step builds on the last
if Claude is handling a simple task like
making a single tool call or following
straightforward instructions the think
tool doesn't add much value in those
cases Claude's default behavior is
already good enough but when things get
complicated when Claude is processing
external data navigating policies or
piecing together multiple steps that's
where the think tool really shines it
gives Claude a mental checkpoint to
reflect verify and correct itself before
moving forward for developers interested
in adding this to their own projects the
implementation is surprisingly simple
the think tool itself is just a
lightweight addition that lets Claude
append thoughts to a log without
changing external data or making new
requests the real magic happens when you
guide Claude with clear instructions
like giving it a structured plan for
when to stop what to check and how to
ensure all requirements are met placing
those instructions in the system prompt
works best for complex tasks instead of
cramming everything into the think tools
description adding detailed steps up
front gives Claude the full context it
needs to know when to stop and reflect
the great thing about this tool is that
it has minimal downside if Claude
doesn't need to stop and think it simply
skips that step so it won't slow things
down unless absolutely necessary and
when Claw does choose to pause and
rethink that extra step often prevents
costly mistakes improving accuracy
without requiring major changes to your
setup all right now in the other news
Perplexity AI is positioning itself as
the ideal candidate to take over Tik Tok
as the social media platform faces a
potential US ban the San Francisco based
AI company recently claimed it is
singularly positioned to rebuild Tik
Tok's algorithm without creating a
monopoly combining its technical
expertise with its status as an
independent player in the tech space
perplexity AI's announcement came
shortly after reports revealed the
company is seeking to raise between 500
million and $1 billion targeting a
valuation of $18 billion the company's
CEO Araven Servas emphasized that
Perplexity is not just another chatbot
alternative but an answer engine
designed to help users find accurate
realtime information through its AI
powered search platform the push for Tik
Tok ownership follows a presidential
order signed by Donald Trump on January
20th delaying the enforcement of a ban
on the platform for 75 days this pause
was meant to give American companies
time to explore acquisition options and
address national security concerns
perplexity joins major contenders like
Oracle Microsoft and Walmart in vying
for Tik Tok along with consortiums led
by former Dodgers owner Frank McCort and
Roblox CEO Jesse Tinsley even Elon Musk
was rumored to have considered a bid
perplexity argues that a consortium deal
could leave Bite Dance with influence
over Tik Tok's algorithm while a
takeover by a major competitor could
result in a monopoly the company claims
its AI powered by Nvidia's Dynamo
platform could enhance Tik Tok's
recommendation system while improving
transparency to combat misinformation